- [Instructor] The Servlet interface is designed
to receive and respond using HTTP messages.
It's important to understand the concepts
behind HTTP messages, and their associated API interfaces,
to successfully work with Servlets.
Within Servlet API, we will be using
the HTTP Servlet request,
and HTTP Servlet response interfaces
when we are working with HTTP messages.
These interfaces have corresponding methods
that are able to retrieve or create
parts of an HTTP request.
Let's review the typical structure of an HTTP message
in order to work with these interfaces better.
An HTTP message begins with a start line
that contains the type of HTTP method,
in this case a POST, and the protocol being used, HTTP.
The start line is followed by headers that provide metadata
about the message, and cookies included within the message.
Finally, the body of the response contains data
associated with the message, which can be
a variety of media types, such as HTML, or JSON.
The request body is typically used
only for HTTP POST and PUT request.
For responses, there's generally some content
that is generated and placed within the body
to be returned to the browser.
Let's dive in a little bit deeper,
and take a look at
the HTTP Servlet request interface documentation.
The HTTP Servlet request interface
represents the incoming HTTP message.
Within this interface, you will find support
for retrieving various pieces of data on that request.
So here we see the Get Cookies method,
which can return a Cookies object.
You see that we can also get headers,
as well as a collection of header names that are accessible.
And, we're also able to get parameters
from the HTTP Servlet request.
So, all of these methods are basically allowing us
to parce out that HTTP request.
Now let's move on, and we'll take a look at
the HTTP Servlet response interface.
So, if we navigate to the documentation,
the HTTP Servlet response is what we're building
and providing back to the client or the browser.
Now, if we scroll down and take a look,
you can see that instead of retrieving information,
we are instead constructing that response
by adding things like cookies, adding different headers,
and a very important piece of this is the Writer.
So, if we take a look at the Writer method,
it provides a Printwriter object,
and this is where we're actually writing out content
that makes up the response that we would like to provide.
So, this was a quick look at the HTTP Servlet request,
and HTTP Servlet response, and how they correspond
with HTTP messages.
We'll be working with these interfaces
quite extensively throughout our lessons.